>> Woodruff: IN BANGLADESH, A
YOUNG SEAMSTRESS WAS PULLED
ALIVE FROM THE RUBBLE OF A
FACTORY, HOURS BEFORE IT WAS TO
BE DEMOLISHED AND 17 DAYS AFTER
IT COLLAPSED.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT: WE
GET THE LATEST ON THE MIRACULOUS
RESCUE AND LOOK AT WHAT THE
GARMENT INDUSTRY IS DOING IN THE
WAKE OF THE DISASTER THAT'S NOW
CLAIMED MORE THAN A THOUSAND
LIVES.
>> Woodruff: THEN, WE HAVE THE
REMARKABLE TALE OF SOPHISTICATED
AND BRAZEN BANK HEISTS, TOTALING
$45 MILLION TAKEN FROM ATMs
AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Brown: RAY SUAREZ REPORTS ON
THIS WEEKEND'S HISTORIC
ELECTIONS IN PAKISTAN, COMING
AMID A DAILY DRUMBEAT OF
VIOLENCE.
>> THE COUNTRY IS BESET WITH
CORRUPTION, WIDESPREAD POVERTY,
SUNNI-SHIITE DIVISIONS AND A
CONSTANT STRUGGLE AGAINST THE
TALIBAN AND ITS ALLIES.
>> Woodruff: MARK SHIELDS AND
MICHAEL GERSON ANALYZE THE
WEEK'S NEWS.
>> Brown: AND WE CLOSE WITH A
STORY OF LOSS, RECOVERY AND
COURAGE IN HER N WOOWRDS, FROM A
VICTIM OF THE BOSTON MARATHON
BOMBING.
>> I HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD.
I-- I CAN'T-- THERE'S NO-- NO
WAY TO LOOK BACK AND SAY
ANYTHING NEGATIVE ABOUT IT OR "I
CAN'T DO THAT" OR "I CAN'T DO
THIS."
I'M GOING TO TRY TO DO WHATEVER
I CAN DO.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: IT VERGES ON THE
MIRACULOUS.
RESCUERS IN BANGLADESH FOUND A
SURVIVOR TODAY IN THE RUINS OF A
GARMENT FACTORY THAT COLLAPSED
ON APRIL 24.
THE DISCOVERY CAME LONG AFTER
HOPE HAD FADED.
WE BEGIN WITH A REPORT NARRATED
BY JONATHAN RUGMAN OF
"INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS."
>> Reporter: AMID THUMBS UP AND
ASTONISHED CRIES OF "GOD IS
GREAT" RESHMA BEGUM EMERGED INTO
THE DAYLIGHT, AFTER 17 DAYS
TRAPPED BENEATH THE RUBBLE.
HER REMARKABLE SURVIVAL
BROADCAST LIVE TO A DISBELIEVING
BANGLADESH.
ALMOST TWO WEEKS SINCE ANYBODY
HERE WAS FOUND ALIVE.
THE SEAMSTRESS HAD FOUND WATER
AND BISCUITS IN THE RUCKSACKS OF
HER FELLOW WORKERS WHO DIED.
"SIR, PLEASE HELP ME," SHE HAD
CRIED OUT JUST AS DEMOLITION MEN
WERE ABOUT TO KNOCK DOWN MORE OF
THE CONCRETE AND TWISTED METAL
ON TOP OF HER.
"NOT MUCH HURT," SHE SAID AS SHE
WAS TAKEN AWAY BY AMBULANCE.
HER 408 HOUR ORDEAL FINALLY
OVER.
RESHMA WAS APPARENTLY TRAPPED ON
THE THIRD FLOOR OF THE EIGHT
STORY BUILDING.
CLOTHES FOR THE BRITISH CLOTHING
CHAIN PRIMARK WERE BEING MADE ON
THFLOOE R BELOW HERS.
OVER 1,030 DEAD, YET SHE WAS
WELL ENOUGH TO DESCRIBE HOW SHE
SURVIVED WHEN THE BISCUITS RAN
OUT.
>> (translated): I SURVIVED ON
WATER NOTHING ELSE.
I COULD BREATHE BUT NOT A LOT.
I MANAGED TO FIND A BOTTLE OF
WATER BUT THEN I COULD NOT FIND
ANY MORE.
I SHOUTED OUT FOR HELP BUT
NOBODY HEARD ME.
>> Reporter: BULLDOZERS BEGAN
CLEARING THE SITE ON MONDAY AND
WERE BUSY HELPING RECOVER BODIES
FROM THE WRECKAGE THIS MORNING.
WHEN A DEMOLITION WORKER SAW A
METAL ROD MOVING AMID THE
RUBBLE.
>> Reporter: NOBODY KNOWS
PRECISELY HOW MANY WERE INSIDE
ON APRIL THE 24th BUT THE DEATH
TOLL KEEPS RISING.
PRIMARK SAYS IT'S TOO EARLY TO
SAY HOW MANY IT WILL COMPENSATE
BUT THAT IT'S PROVIDING FOOD
PARCELS FOR UP TO 1,000
HOUSEHOLDS
ALMOST 30 WESTERN BRANDS HAD
GOODS MANUFACTURED HERE BUT VERY
FEW HAVE SPOKEN ABOUT IT.
THE BUILDING'S OWNER SOHEL RANA
HAS BEEN ARRESTED.
AFTER HE'D CLAIMED THESE WERE
JUST HAIRLINE CRACKS, AN
ENGINEER HAD WARNED HIM TO CLOSE
THE BUILDING.
A DAY LATER IT COLLAPSED.
THE BANGLADESHI GOVERNMENT SAYS
IT'S CLOSED 18 FACTORIES BUT
THAT 14 MILLION BANGLADESHI
FAMILIES DEPEND
ON TIES HUNDREDS PROTESTED FOR
COMPENSATION AND WERE GIVEN
SALARIES.
>> Woodruff: JOINING ME TO TALK
ABOUT WHAT'S BEING DONE ABOUT
WORKING CONDITIONS AND SAFETY
STANDARDS IN BANGLADESH IS
STEVEN GREENHOUSE OF THE "NEW
YORK TIMES."
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
THIS IS AN INCREDIBLE STORY, BUT
BRING US UP TO DATE ON ANYTHING
MORE THAT'S KNOWN AFTER ALL THIS
TIME ABOUT WHY THIS HAPPENED IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
>> THERE WERE TWO INCREDIBLE
STORIES TODAY.
ONE, THE MIRACULOUS RESCUE OF
RESHEMA, AND THE OTHER
INCREDIBLE STORY WAS THE DEATH
TOLL COUNT ROSE OVER 1,000.
NOW, WE IN THE UNITED STATES
TALK ABOUT THE HORRENDOUS
TRIANGLE SHIRTWAIST FIRE OF
1911.
146 PEOPLE DIED THEN AND THAT
CHANGED THE UNITED STATES AND
MADE US TAKE WORKPLACE SAFETY
FAR MORE SERIOUSLY.
HERE, MORE THAN SEVEN TIMES THAT
NUMBER HAVE DIED.
THE LATEST DEATH COUNT IS 1039.
WHAT CHANGED OVER THE PAST WEEK
IS THE DEATH COUNT HAS RISEN
FROM 200, 300, TO OVER 1,000.
WE KNOW MORE THAT THE OWNER OF
THE BUILDING ACTED ILLEGALLY,
WAS ADDING THREE ILLEGAL FLOORS
ON TO THE BUILDING.
I THINK EVERYONE SAYS THAT'S ONE
OF THE MAIN REASONING THE
BUILDING COLLAPSED WAS BECAUSE
OF ALL THE ADDITIONAL WEIGHT
WITHOUT THE PROPER STRUCK THE
TOWER SUPPORT IT.
FAR MORE PRESSURE HAS BEEN
BROUGHT ON THE BANGLADESHY
GOVERNMENT, ON THE
MANUFACTURERS, AND WESTERN
COMPANIES LIKE WAL-MART AND THE
GAP TO DO MORE TO ASSURE FIRE
SAFETY.
THE BANGLADESHY GOVERNMENT
ANNOUNCED AN AGREEMENT WITH THE
INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION
THIS WEEK THAT IT WOULD VASTLY
INCREASE THE NUMBER OF
INSPECTORS.
IT SAID THINGS LIKE THAT BEFORE.
WE'LL SEE WHETHER SOMETHING
REALLY CHANGE POSITIVE.
>> Woodruff: I WAS GOING TO
SAY WE HEARD IN THE REPORT
SOMETHING LIKE 30 WESTERN
CLOTHING MANUFACTURERS WERE
USING EITHER THIS BUILDING OR
PLANT LIKE IT.
WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT WHO THOSE
MANUFACTURERS ARE, AND WHETHER
THEY'RE TAKING ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS.
>> GOOD QUESTION.
SOME-- AMONG THE WESTERN
COMPANIES THAT WERE USING THE
FACTORY WERE BENNETTON OF ITALY.
PRIME MARK OF THE UNITED
KINGDOM.
HERE IN THE UNITED STATES,
CUSTOM RECORDS SHOW TWO AMERICAN
COMPANIES, CHILDREN'S PLACE, AND
KATO FASHIONS HAD SOURCE A LOT
FROM THAT FACTORY OVER THE PAST
YEAR.
I BELIEVE ONE OR TWO J.C. PENNY
LABELS WERE FOUND AS WELL.
IT'S INTERESTING THAT PRIME
MARK, THEY'VE ALL ANNOUNCED THEY
WERE GOING TO PARTICIPATE IN A
FUND, A VICTIMS' FUND TO HELP
THE FAMILIES OF THE VICTIMS.
AS FAR AS I KNOW, NO UNITED
STATES COMPANY HAS STEPPED UP
AND SAID IT WOULD PARTICIPATE IN
THE FUND.
THE OTHER THING, JUDY, IS A
LOT-- THERE'S A LOT OF PRESSURE
BEING BROUGHT BY N.G.O.s,
ANTI-SWEAT SHOP GROUPS, ON THE
WESTERN RETAILERS TO REALLY GET
MORE SERIOUS ABOUT DOING
SOMETHING TO MAKE SURE SOMETHING
LIKE THIS NEVER HAPPENS AGAIN.
YOU KNOW, ONE SURPRISE
DEVELOPMENT OVER THE PAST WEEK
IS THAT THERE WAS ANOTHER
FACTORY FIRE TWO NIGHTS AGO
WHERE EIGHT PEOPLE DIED AND ONE
OF THOSE WHO DIED WAS THE
FACTORY OWNER WHO WAS A LEADER
OF THE BANGLADESHY GARMENT
MANUFACTURE'S ASSOCIATION WHICH
HAS OFTEN SOUGHT TO REASSURE THE
WORLD, HEY, DON'T WORRY, THINGS
AREN'T SO BAD.
SO I THINK MUCH MORE PRESSURE IS
BEING BROUGHT ON THE BANGLADESHY
GOVERNMENT AND THE MANUFACTURERS
TO REALLY DO SOMETHING BECAUSE
THIS HAS HAPPENED TOO MANY
TIMESES.
>> Woodruff: YOU MENTIONED
EFFORTS BY THE OUTSIDE GROUPS,
INDEPENDENT GROUPS TO GET ALL
THESE COMPANIES TO GO-- ABIDE BY
STANDARDS THAT WOULD MAKE SURE
THINGS LIKE THIS DON'T HAPPEN
AGAIN.
WHY IS THAT NOT MAKING MORE--
HAVING MORE SUCCESS AT A TIME
LIKE THIS WITH THIS SORT OF A
TRAGEDY?
>> THAT'S-- THAT'S THE QUESTION
EVERYONE'S CELTIC.
THERE WAS A HORRIBLE TRAGEDY IN
NOVEMBER IN BANGLADESH WHERE 112
WORKERS DIED IN A FACTORY FIRE,
AND A LOT OF US JOURNALISTS AND
OTHERS WERE SAYING THAT'S GOING
TO CHANGE THINGS, WE'LL SEE
WESTERN COMPANIES REALLY STEP
UP, SEE THE BANGLADESH
GOVERNMENT STEP UP TO IMPROVE
THINGS AND HERE WE ARE WITH A
FAR MORE HORRIFIC TRAGEDY.
I'VE INTERVIEWED A LOT OF PEOPLE
IN DIFFERENT COMPANIES AND THEY
SEEM TO BE SCURRYING TO DO
SOMETHING.
I THINK COMPANIES OFTEN SUFFER
FROM INERTIA AND THEY'RE NOT
RUBBING TO SPEND MORE MONEY TO--
FOR SAFETY.
BUT I K REALLY IS
IMMENSE PRESSURE ON THEM TO DO
MORE, AND THE SPECIFIC PUSH IS
FOR THEM TO SIGN ON TO A PLAN IN
WHICH THEY WOULD MAKE A BINDING
COMMITMENT TO HELP FINANCE THE
FIRE SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS, THE
BILLION SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS THAT
WOULD BE WOULD BE NEED FOR THE
3,000, 4,000 GARMENT FACT FLEES
BANGLADESH TO HELP ENSURE THAT
WHEN WORKERS GO TO WORK, WHEN
THESE WOMEN GO TO WORK IN THE
MORNING THAT THEY'LL BE ABLE TO
COME HOME TO THEIR FAMILIES AT
THE END OF THE DAY.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IT IS A
STORY THAT WE ALL NEED TO KEEP
COMING BACK TO.
STEVEN GREENHOUSE, THE "NEW YORK
TIMES," THANK YOU.
>> THANKS.
>> Brown: STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": A VERY MODERN BANK
HEIST; AN ELECTION DAY
OVERSHADOWED BY VIOLENCE;
SHIELDS AND GERSON ON
IMMIGRATION AND BENGHAZI.
PLUS, A LOOK BACK AT THE BOSTON
BOMBING AND AHEAD TO RECOVERY.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: CARBON DIOXIDE
IN THE EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE HAS
NOW REACHED LEVELS NOT SEEN FOR
TWO TO THREE MILLION YEARS.
THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION
REPORTS THE CONCENTRATION TOPPED
400 PARTS PER MILLION YESTERDAY,
AT A MEASURING STATION IN
HAWAII.
BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL
REVOLUTION, CARBON DIOXIDE
LEVELS WERE FAR LOWER.
BUT, LEVELS OF THE GREENHOUSE
GAS HAVE RISEN STEADILY, DESPITE
RECENT EFFORTS TO SLOW
EMISSIONS.
THE LAST OF THREE WOMEN WHO HAD
BEEN HELD CAPTIVE IN CLEVELAND
WAS RELEASED FROM THE HOSPITAL
TODAY.
32-YEAR-OLD MICHELLE KNIGHT WAS
ABDUCTED IN 2002.
SHE HAS TOLD POLICE THAT HER
ALLEGED CAPTOR ARIEL CASTRO
STARVED AND BEAT HER TO MAKE HER
MISCARRY, AT LEAST FIVE TIMES.
MEANWHILE, D.N.A. TESTS
CONFIRMED THAT CASTRO FATHERED A
SIX-YEAR-OLD GIRL FOUND AT HIS
RUNDOWN HOUSE.
HER MOTHER IS AMANDA BERRY,
ANOTHER OF THE WOMEN HELD
CAPTIVE.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION FACED
NEW CHALLENGES TODAY TO ITS
STATEMENTS ON THE DEADLY ATTACK
AT THE U.S. CONSULATE IN
BENGHAZI, LIBYA.
AMBASSADOR CHRISTOPHER STEVENS
AND THREE OTHER AMERICANS DIED
THERE LAST SEPTEMBER 11.
THE LATEST TWIST IN WHO KNEW
WHAT AND WHEN ABOUT BENGHAZI.
CAME IN THE FORM OF AN ABC NEWS
REPORT.
IT SAID THE OFFICIAL TALKING
POINTS ON THE INCIDENT WERE
HEAVILY EDITED TO DELETE ANY
REFERENCE TO AL QAEDA OR
PREVIOUS TERROR WARNINGS.
FIVE DAYS AFTER THE ATTACK, U.N.
AMBASSADOR SUSAN RICE DREW ON
THE TALKING POINTS, SAYING THE
INCIDENT WAS A MUSLIM PROTEST
THAT GOT OUT OF HAND.
THIS WEEK, AT A HOUSE HEARING,
GREGORY HICKS, THE FORMER DEPUTY
CHIEF OF MISSION IN LIBYA, SAID
HE WAS SHOCKED BY RICE'S
STATEMENT.
>> I WAS STUNNED, MY JAW DROPPED
AND I WAS EMBARRASSED.
>> DID SHE TALK TO YOU BEFORE
SHE WENT ON THE FIVE SUNDAY TALK
SHOWS?
>> NO, SIR.
>> Sreenivasan: WHITE HOUSE
OFFICIALS-- FROM SPOKESMAN JAY
CARNEY TO VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN--
HAVE MAINTAINED THE TALKING
POINTS CAME FROM INTELLIGENCE
AGENCIES.
THE ABC ACCOUNT SAYS THE CIA'S
INITIAL TALKING POINTS DRAFT DID
MENTION A SPONTANEOUS PROTEST,
BUT IT ALSO SAID ISLAMIST
MILITANTS WERE INVOLVED.
IT WAS REVISED AT LEAST A DOZEN
TIMES, MAINLY AT THE BEHEST OF
THE STATE DEPARTMENT.
SPOKESWOMAN VICTORIA NULAND E-
MAILED WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS AND
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
URGING THAT REFERENCES TO TERROR
AND AL-QAEDA BE REMOVED.
NULAND ARGUED THAT IT "COULD BE
ABUSED BY MEMBERS OF CONGRESS TO
BEAT UP THE STATE DEPARTMENT FOR
NOT PAYING ATTENTION TO
WARNINGS."
BUT TODAY, WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY FACED A
BATTERY OF NEW QUESTIONS,
INSISTED AGAIN THERE WAS NO
EFFORT TO HIDE ANYTHING.
>> WE BELIEVED BASED ON THE
INTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENT THAT
EXTREMISTS WERE INVOLVED, AND
THERE WERE SUSPICIONS ABOUT WHAT
AFFILIATIONS THOSE EXTREMISTS
MIGHT HAVE BUT THERE WAS NOT
HARD, CONCRETE EVIDENCE AND SO
AMBASSADOR RICE IN THOSE SHOWS
TALKED ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY
THAT AL-QAEDA MIGHT BE INVOLVED
OR OTHER AL-QAEDA AFFILIATES
MIGHT BE INVOLVED OR NON-AL
QAEDA LIBYAN EXTREMISTS WHICH I
THINK DEMONSTRATES THERE WAS NO
EFFORT TO PLAY THAT DOWN.
>> Sreenivasan: REPUBLICANS HAVE
INSISTED THE ADMINISTRATION
BOTCHED SECURITY IN BENGHAZI AND
THE RESPONSE TO THE ATTACK, AND
EVER SINCE, HAVE TRIED TO COVER
IT UP.
THEY'RE PROMISING MORE HEARINGS
TO COME.
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE HAS
ADMITTED IT FLAGGED SOME
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS FOR MORE
AGGRESSIVE REVIEWS DURING THE
2012 ELECTION.
THEY WERE SINGLED OUT IF THEIR
APPLICATIONS FOR TAX-EXEMPT
STATUS INCLUDED THE WORDS TEA
PARTY OR PATRIOT.
THE HEAD OF THE I.R.S. DIVISION
OVERSEEING TAX-EXEMPT GROUPS
SAID TODAY THE PRACTICE WAS
WRONG.
SHE SAID NO HIGH-LEVEL I.R.S.
OFFICIALS KNEW IT WAS HAPPENING
AT THE TIME.
THE CREATOR OF THE WORLD'S FIRST
FULLY FUNCTIONING 3-D PRINTABLE
HANDGUN HAS REMOVED THE
BLUEPRINTS FROM ITS WEBSITE.
FEDERAL AUTHORITIES ORDERED THE
ACTION.
THEY SAY DEFENSE DISTRIBUTED MAY
HAVE VIOLATED EXPORT CONTROL
LAWS BY POSTING THE DESIGN FILES
FOR ITS LIBERATOR GUN ONLINE.
THE ORGANIZATION SAYS BY THE
TIME THE BLUEPRINTS WERE TAKEN
DOWN, THEY HAD ALREADY BEEN
DOWNLOADED MORE THAN 100,000
TIMES.
THE NEW SKYSCRAPER AT GROUND
ZERO IN NEW YORK NOW STANDS AT
ITS FULL HEIGHT.
APPLAUSE ERUPTED AS CONSTRUCTION
WORKERS HOISTED THE FINAL
PORTION OF A 408 FOOT SILVER
SPIRE TO THE TOP OF ONE WORLD
TRADE CENTER.
IT TOPS OUT THE BUILDING A TOTAL
OF 1,776 FEET.
THE NEW STRUCTURE WILL BE THE
TALLEST IN THE U.S. AND THE
THIRD TALLEST IN THE WORLD.
WALL STREET FINISHED TODAY WITH
IT'S BEING BUILT AT THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF WHERE THE
TWIN TOWERS STOOD BEFORE THE
9/11 ATTACKS.
WALL STREET FINISHED TODAY WITH
ITS THIRD STRAIGHT WEEK OF
GAINS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
ADDED NEARLY 36 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 15,118.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 27 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,436.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED 1%.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 1.7%.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: AND WE TURN TO A MAJOR
CYBER-THEFT GLOBAL IN SCOPE...
AND RAISING NEW QUESTIONS ABOUT
OUR VULNERABILITIES IN THE
DIGITAL AGE.
THE THEFTS TOOK PLACE IN BROAD
DAYLIGHT AT A.T.M. MACHINES, AND
THE THIEVES WORE NO DISGUISES.
>> THIS WAS A 21st CENTURY BANK
HEIST THAT REACHED THROUGH THE
INTERNET TO SPAN THE GLOBE.
>> Brown: U.S. AUTHORITIES SAY
THE REACH OF THE INTERNATIONAL
CYBER-GANG WAS WIDE: 27
CNTRIOUES FROM RUSSIA, JAPAN,
EGYPT, COLOMBIA, CANADA AND
BEYOND.
THE CRIMINALS HACKED INTO
COMPANIES THAT PROCESS PRE-PAID
DEBIT CARDS FOR TWO BANKS IN THE
MIDDLE EAST, STOLE THE DATA AND
THEN COPIED IT ONTO DOCTORED
CARDS WITH MAGNETIC STRIPS.
YESTERDAY IN NEW YORK, U.S.
ATTORNEY LORETTA LYNCH EXPLAINED
WHAT HAPPENED NEXT.
>> THEY BECOME A VIRTUAL
CRIMINAL FLASH MOB, GOING FROM
MACHINE TO MACHINE DRAWING AS
MUCH MONEY AS THEY CAN BEFORE
THESE ACCOUNTS ARE SHUT DOWN.
>> Brown: ON DECEMBER 21,
THIEVES HIT 4,500 A.T.M.'S IN
SOME 20 COUNTRIES, STEALING $5
MILLION.
THEN ON FEBRUARY 19, THEY UPPED
THEIR GAME.
IN TEN HOURS, THEY STOLE $40
WORLDWIDE.
IN MANHATTAN ALONE, A TEAM OF
EIGHT SO-CALLED "CASHERS"
ALLEGEDLY MADE THEIR WAY FROM
A.T.M. TO A.T.M. MAKING 2,900
WITHDRAWALS TOTALING $2.4
MILLION.
TWO OF THE SUSPECTS TOOK PHOTOS
OF THEMSELVES AND THE STACKS OF
CASH THEY ALLEGEDLY STOLE.
TO ROUND OUT THE CRIME,
AUTHORITIES SAY THE SUSPECTS
LAUNDERED THE MONEY BY
PURCHASING LUXURY GOODS IN THE
FORM OF ROLEX WATCHES, GUCCI
BAGS AND EXPENSIVE CARS.
AND WE'RE JOINED NOW BY THE
FEDERAL PROSECUTOR IN THE
LORETTA LYNCH IS THE U.S.
ATTORNEY FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WHEN YOU CALL THIS A "21st
CENTURY BANK HEIST" BEFORE WE GO
THROUGH SOME OF THE DETAILS,
EXPLAIN WHAT YOU MEAN BY THAT.
>> WELL, JEFFREY, THIS WAS A
SITUATION WHERE NUMEROUS BANKS
WERE HIT SEVERAL TIMES, IN FACT
TWO BANKS IN THESE TWO ATTACKS.
BUT USING THOUSANDS AND
THOUSANDS OF A.T.M.s.
SO THE BANKS WERE LITERALLY
ROBBED IN BROAD DAYLIGHT WITHOUT
ANYONE ENTERING THEIR SPECIFIC
BRANCHES.
IT WAS ONE OF THE LARGEST
ATTACKS OF THIS TYPE THAT WE'VE
SEEN USING THIS TYPE OF CYBER
ATTACK.
>> Brown: IT'S A GLOBAL
OPERATION BUT ONE THING YOU HAVE
NOT SAID YET IS WHO IS BEHIND
IT.
WHAT CAN YOU TELL JUICE IT IS A
GLOBAL OPERATION.
THE INVESTIGATION IS ONGOING.
WE, OBVIOUSLY, ARE HOPING TO
MAKE INROADS THERE SO WE'RE NOT
GOING TO BE ABLE TO GIVE A LOT
OF DETAIL ABOUT WHO WE THINK IS
BEHIND IT AT THIS POINT IN TIME.
WHAT WE DO KNOW, HOWEVER, IS
THAT IT WAS A VERY SOPHISTICATED
OPERATION, THAT IT HAD TO HAVE
FINANCIAL BACKING, THAT IT HAD
TO HAVE A PEOPLE WITH A GREAT
DEAL OF COMPUTER EXPERTISE AND
PATIENCE.
IT TAKES A LONG TIME TO HACK
YOUR WAY INTO THE PROCESSORS
THAT WERE USED HERE AND
ESSENTIALLY LIE IN WAIT,
GATHERING DATA, INCREASING YOUR
ACCESS BIT BY BIT, UNTIL YOU CAN
LITERALLY TAKE OVER THE
PROCESSOR'S FUNCTIONS.
>> Brown: EXPLAIN A LITTLE BIT
MORE THE MECHANICS HERE.
THEY WERE HACKING INTO THE
PROCESSING COMPANIES, NOT THE
BANKS THEMSELVES, RIGHT.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> Brown: AND THEY WERE GET
SPOG THESE DEBIT CARDS AND
UPPING THE LIMIT THAT THE PEOPLE
COULD TAKE OUT.
>> YES, ABSOLUTELY.
IN FACT, IN THE NEW YORK CREW,
DURING THE SECOND ATTACK IN
FEBRUARY, THOSE EIGHT GUYS ONLY
HAD ONE ACCOUNT AMONG THEM.
AND THAT ACCOUNT LIMIT HAD BEEN
RAISED TO $40 MILLION.
THEY LOOK AT PREPAID DEBIT CARDS
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT TIED AN
INDIVIDUAL, NOT TIED TO AN
INDIVIDUAL'S CHECKING OR SAVINGS
ACCOUNT.
PEOPLE TEND TO CHECK THOSE.
YOU WOULD NOTICE IF YOUR OWN
PERSONAL DEBIT CARD LIMIT SHOT
UP TO $40 MILLION AND YOU'D
PROBABLY CALL SOMEBODY BUT THE
MOST SOPHISTICATE PART OF THE
ATTACK IS THE HACK ITSELF.
THESE ARE PATIENT CYBER
CRIMINALS.
IT TAKES ANYWHERE FROM TWO TO 18
MONTHS TO EXECUTE THE KIND OF
CONTROL NEEDED TO REALLY GET
INSIDE THESE CREDIT CARD
PROCESSORS.
AS YOU MENTIONED, IT'S NOT THE
ACTUAL BANKS.
IT'S MIDDLE MEN, THE PEOPLE WHO
PROCESS THE CARDS AND THE MONEY
FLOWS THROUGH THEM AS SOMEONE
USES A PREPAID DEBIT CARD.
IT'S A VERY STANDARD PRACTICE IN
THE FINANCIAL INDUSTRY.
THE HACKERS USING MALWARE WORK
THEIR WAY INTO THE PROCESSOR'S
OWN SYSTEMS.
THEY ESSENTIALLY GAIN MORE AND
MORE SECURITY ACCESS, KIND OF
LIKE BECOMING A SECRET SYSTEMS
ADMINISTRATOR.
THEY ARE HIDING ALMOST IN PLAIN
SIGHT IN THESE COMPUTER SYSTEMS.
>> Brown: AND THE PEOPLE THAT
YOU-- THAT YOU DID ARREST, THAT
YOU ANNOUNCED YESTERDAY,
ESPECIALLY THE EIGHT IN NEW
YORK, SAY THEY'RE LOW LEVEL,
RIGHT.
THEY'RE NOT DOING THE HIGH-TECH
STUFF.
THEY'RE ESSENTIALLY STREET
CRIMINALS?
>> WELL, THEY WERE NOT DOING THE
HIGH-TECH STUFF, BUT WE WOULDN'T
CALL THEM LOW LEVEL BECAUSE
WITHOUT THEM YOU COULD NOT
PLUNDER THE BANACCOK UNTS WILL
IN THE WAY IN WHICH THEY WERE
PLUNDERED.
THEY ARE ACTUALLY A VITAL PART
OF THE ORGANIZATION.
OARCH SEEMS TO HAVE EQUAL
IMPORTANCE, JUST A VERY, VERY
DIFFERENT ROLE IN THIS.
BUT THESE GUYS WERE THE FEET ON
THE STREET, SO TO SPEAK.
THEY WERE THE ONES WHO WERE
COMMANDED AND DIRECTED TO GO TO
THE A.T.M.s, TO WAIT FOR THAT
CODE, TO SPRING INTO ACTION, AND
CASH OUT AS MUCH MONEY AS THEY
COULD BEFORE THE CREDIT CARD
PROCESSOR OR THE BANK OR SOMEONE
ELSE DISCOVERED WHAT THEY WERE
DOING.
>> Brown: NOW I KNOW YOUR
INVESTIGATION IS STILL ONGOING.
WE TALKED ABOUT TWO MIDDLE EAST
BANKS.
BUT TODAY, THE HEAD OF ONE OF
THOSE BANKS SUGGESTED THAT THE
FRAUD MAY HAVE GONE BEYOND THOSE
BANKS TO MANY OTHERS AROUND THE
WORLD, INCLUDING IN THE U.S.
WHAT CAN YOU SAY AT THIS POINT?
>> YOU KNOW, WHAT I CAN SAY IS
THAT CERTAINLY THIS IS ONE OF
THE LARGEST OF THE UNLIMITED
OPERATIONS THAT WE'VE SEEN, AND
WE'RE SEEING MORE AND MORE OF
THEM.
IT IS A CHANGE IN THE WAY CYBER
CRIMINALS OPERATE, AND STOW
WE'RE WATCHING THEM VERY
CAREFULLY AND WE'RE SHUTTING
THEM DOWN WHERE WE CAN.
I THINK THE MESSAGE, WHETHER
FROM THAT BANK OR CERTAINLY FROM
US IS THAT EVERY FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION NEEDS TO REMAIN
VIGILANT.
THEY NEED TO WORK WITH LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
THERE'S BEEN A GREAT DEAL OF
COOPERATION SO FAR. REMAIN
VIGILANT BECAUSE CYBER CRIMINALS
ARE CHANGING THEIR METHOD OF
ATTACK AS WE ADAPT TO FOLLOW
THEM.
>> Brown: WHO IS RESPONSIBLE
FOR MONEY THAT WAS LOST IN THESE
CASES?
I MEAN, IS IT ACTUALLY MONEY
THAT WAS LOST, SOMEBODY'S MONEY.
SO WHO'S RESPONSIBLE?
IS IT THE BANKS, THE CREDIT CARD
COMPANIES, THE INDIVIDUALS?
>> RIGHT NOW, IT'S THE BANKS.
AND CERTAINLY THEY'LL BE LOOKING
TO THEIR INSURANCE CARRIERS AND
WORKING OUT THOSE DETAILS AS
TIME GOES ON.
NO INDIVIDUAL ACCOUNTS WERE
COMPROMISED IN THIS AND THAT'S
ACTUALLY VERY IMPORTANT TO SAY.
SO NO INDIVIDUALS LOST THIS SUM
TOTAL OF $45 MILLION.
WE HAVE, OF COURSE, IN THE PAST
SEEN OTHER HACKING OPERATIONS
WHERE INDIVIDUAL ACCOUNTS HAVE
BEEN COMPROMISED.
SO PEOPLE SHOULD NOT FEEL THAT
BECAUSE THE CYBER CRIMINALS HAVE
MORPH BOD THIS DIRECTION THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO IGNORE THOSE
INDIVIDUAL ACCOUNTS.
>> Brown: THAT'S WHAT I WANT
TO ASK YOU BRIEFLY HERE AT THE
END, IS THERE ANY MESSAGE FOR
INDIVIDUALS AS CONSUMERS AS TO
THEIR VULNERABILITY AND FOR YOU
IN LAW ENFORCEMENT AS YOU SAID,
THE CRIMINALS FIND NEW WAYS TO
DO THIS IN CYBERSPACE.
>> WELL, I THINK THERE'S SEVERAL
MESSAGES HERE.
IN TERMS OF LAW ENFORCEMENT, WE
WORK VERY CLOSELY WITH THE
FINANCIAL INDUSTRY TO WATCH THE
TYPES OF ATTACKS THAT ARE BEING
LAUNCHED AND TO HELP THEM
PROTECT THEMSELVES.
BUT WE NEED THEIR HELP AS WELL.
WE URGE ALL FINANCIAL INDUSTRY
COMPANIES, AS, FRANKLY, ALL OF
PRIVATE INDUSTRY, TO REMAIN
VIGILANT WHEN THEY SPOT A
PROBLEM, NOTIFY US.
OFTEN COMPANIES THINK THAT
BECAUSE A LOT OF THE HACKING
OCCURS OVERSEAS IT MAY BE TOO
LATE TO DO SOMETHING, BUT WE'VE
ACTUALLY HAD A GREAT DEAL OF
SUCCESS WORKING WITH OUR
OVERSEAS COUNTER-PARTS.
FOR INDIVIDUALS, THEY, TOO, HAVE
TO REMAIN VIGILANT.
IT'S A GREAT THING TO LIVE IN A
DIGITAL AGE.
IT'S CONVENIENT, IT'S FAST.
WE HAVEN'T QUITE HIT THAT
CASH-LESS SOCIETY YET AS THE
PICTURES ILLUSTRATE, BUT PEOPLE
ARE VERY USED TO THE CONVENIENCE
OF BEING ABLE TO ELECTRONICALLY
LIVE THEIR LIVES, BUT THEY HAVE
TO RECOGNIZE THAT A LOT OF THAT
COMES AT A COST.
AND THERE MAY BE TIMES WHEN WE
ASK THEM TO STEP BACK A BIT AND
TO BEAR WITH US AS WE WORK OUT
TRYING TO MAKE THEM AS SAFE AS
POSSIBLE.
>> Brown: U.S. ATTORNEY
LORETTA LYNCH.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, JEFFREY.
>> Woodruff: NEXT TO PAKISTAN.
THE COUNTRY'S CITIZENS HEAD TO
THE POLLS THIS SATURDAY FOR AN
HISTORIC VOTE,
DESPITE THREATS OF ATTACKS FROM
THE TALIBAN.
RAY SUAREZ REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THERE'S BEEN NO
SHORTAGE OF ENTHUSIASM AS
PAKISTANIS APPROACH TOMORROW'S
CRITICAL PARLIAMENTARY
ELECTIONS.
BUT E POTHLITICAL RALLIES HAVE
UNFOLDED IN THE SHADOW OF ALMOST
DAILY VIOLENCE.
SINCE APRIL, ATTACKS BY THE
PAKISTANI TALIBAN HAVE LEFT MORE
THAN 100 PEOPLE DEAD AND THE
GROUP WARNS OF SUICIDE BOMBINGS
ON ELECTION DAY.
>> WE'VE SEEN A LOT OF VIOLENCE
TARGETING PAKISTANI SECURITY
FORCES IN RECENT MONTHS BUT I
THE LAST COUPLE OF MONTHS THEY
HAVE BEEN SPECIFICALLY TARGETING
ELECTION RELATED TARTS,GE
CANDIDATES, POLITICAL PARTY
WORKERS, POLITICAL PARTY
OFFICES, ELECTION COMMISSION
OFFICES.
>> Reporter: ANDREW WILDER IS
DIRECTOR OF AFGHANISTAN AND
PAKISTAN PROGRAMS AT THE UNITED
STATES INSTITUTE OF PEACE IN
WASHINGTON.
HE RECENTLY TRAVELED TO PAKISTAN
WHERE ATTACKS HAVE MOST OFTEN
TARGETED LIBERAL AND SECULAR
PARTIES, FORCING SOME TOP
CANDIDATES TO CURTAIL
CAMPAIGNING.
YESTERDAY, GUNMEN EVEN KIDNAPPED
THE SON OF FORMER PRIME MINISTER
YOUSUF RAZA GILANI.
WILDER SAYS THERE'S A LONG LIST
OF MOTIVES.
>> OF THE SEPARATIST GROUPS ARE
VERY OPPOSED TO THE ELECTIONS
PERIOD.
SOME OF THE MORE EXTREME
MILITANT GROUPS ARE ALSO I THINK
JUST TRYING TO PREVENT THE
ELECTIONS FROM HAPPENING,
INCLUDING TARGETING SOME ISLAMIC
PARTIES IN THE CAMPAIGN.
HOWEVER SOME OF THE OTHER
MILITANT GROUPS HAVE BEEN PRETTY
EXPLICIT THAT THEY HAVE
PARTICULAR PARTIES THAT THEY
WANT TO DISADVANTAGE IN THIS
ELECTION.
SO PRESUMABLY THERE ARE PARTIES
THAT THEY WOULD LIKE TO
ADVANTAGE IN THE ELECTION AS
WELL.
>> Reporter: ALL OF THIS COMES
AT AN URGENT MOMENT IN
PAKISTAN'S 65-YEAR HISTORY, THE
COUNTRY IS BESET WITH
CORRUPTION, WIDESPREAD POVERTY,
SUNNI-SHIITE DIVISIONS AND A
CONSTANT STRUGGLE AGAST TINHE
TALIBAN AND ITS ALLIES.
PAKISTAN HAS PLAYED A CRITICAL
ROLE IN THE WAR ON TERROR, AND,
AS WILDER NOTES, WASHINGTON WILL
BE WATCHING CLOSELY TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS THIS WEEKEND.
>> I THINK THE GENERAL SENSE IS
THAT THERE IS NOT GOING TO BE
DRAMATIC CHANGES.
IT'S NOT LIKE, WE'VE HAD A GREAT
U.S.-PAKISTAN RELATIONSHIP IN
THE PAST COUPLE OF YEARS AND SO
IT DOESN'T HAVE MUCH FURTHER
SOUTH THAT IT CAN GO.
SO I THINK THAT THERE IS HOPE
THAT WITH A NEW GOVERNMT ANEND
REALLY TO SOME EXTENT WHO EVER
IS ELECTED THERE WILL BE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO TRY TO TACKLE
SOME OF THE MAIN PROBLEMS FACING
PAKISTAN.
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO THE
POLLS, NAWAZ SHARIF AND HIS
PAKISTAN MUSLIM LEAGUE-NAWAZ
PARTY, THE P.M.L.N., ARE MAKING
A STRONG BID.
SHARIF HAS SERVED AS PRIME
MINISTER TWICE BEFORE, DURING
THE 1990s.
>> PAKISTAN NEEDS A STRONG
GOVERNMENT TO PULL IT OUT FROM
THE QUAGMIRE OF PROBLEMS.
IT NEEDS A STRONG WRIT OF A
POWERFUL GOVERNMENT WHICH CAN
END TURBULENCE, WHICH CAN END
TERRORISM AND WHICH CAN MAKE A
PEACEFUL COUNTRY, AND ALSO WHICH
CAN ALLOW THE COUNTRY TO DEVELOP
AND PROGRESS.
>> Reporter: SHARIF HAS
CAMPAIGNED HARD ON THE THEME OF
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
HIS BACKERS IN LAHORE, INSIDE
THE POPULOUS PUNJAB PROVINCE,
POINT TO THE CITY'S NEWEST METRO
BUS SYSTEM AS AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT
THEY COULD BRING TO THE ENTIRE
COUNTRY.
OPENED EARLIER THIS YEAR, THE
RAPID TRANSIT PROJECT RUNS
THROUGH VARIOUS RESIDENTIAL AND
COMMERCIAL PARTS OF LAHORE.
IT WAS PUSHED BY SHARIF'S
BROTHER, THE FORMER CHIEF
MINISTER OF PUNJAB PROVINCE
AND IT HAS HELPED GARNER NEW
SUPPORT FROM VOTERS.
>> I MYSELF HAVE BEEN A STRONG
SUPPORTER OF PAKISTAN PEOPLE'S
PARTY ALL MY LIFE BUT NOW IN
THIS ELECTION CAMPAIGN, I THINK
I'M GOING TO CAST MY VOTE IN
FAVOR OF PAKISTAN MUSLIM LEAGUE.
AND IT'S ALL BECAUSE OF THE
WORKS, DEVELOPMENTAL WORKS THEY
HAVE DONE LIKE THIS METRO BUS
SERVICE.
THEY SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES WHERE
AS PAKISTAN PEOPLE'S PARTY HAS
NOT BEEN ABLE TO DELIVER
ANYTHING IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS.
>> Reporter: STILL, WITH NO
POLITICAL PARTY EXPECTED TO WIN
A MAJORITY, A COALITION
GOVERNMENT IS THE LIKELY RESULT.
THE MAN THAT MAY BECOME KING
MAKER IN THE FORMING OF A NEW
GOVERNMENT IS IMRAN KHAN, AN
INTERNATIONAL STAR CRICKET
PLAYER TURNED POLITICIAN.
THE 60-YEAR-OLD HEADS THE TARIQ-
E-INSAF OR MOVEMENT FOR JUSTICE
PARTY, WHICH HE FOUNDED IN 1996.
>> (translated): WHILE CASTING
YOUR VOTE, YOU SHOULD NOT FOLLOW
THE ADVICE OF YOUR RELATIVES OR
THE COMMUNITY.
YOU SHOULD NOT FOLLOW THE ADVICE
OF YOUR FRIENDS.
YOU HAVE TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT
ONE THING ONLY, THE IDEOLOGY.
WE ARE BRINGING IDEOLOGY BACK IN
POLITICS.
THE IDEOLOGY OF A NEW PAKISTAN.
>> Reporter: PART OF THAT
IDEOLOGY IS KHAN'S CRITICISM OF
U.S. DRONE ATTACKS INSIDE
PAKISTAN.
SUPPORTERS ALSO HOPE TO
CAPITALIZE ON FRUSTRATION WITH
THE PAKISTAN PEOPLE'S PARTY,
WHICH HAS GOVERNED FOR THE PAST
FIVE YEARS.
>> THEY COMPLETELY RUINED OUR
COUNTRY.
THEY COMPLETELY RUINED OUR
LIVES.
THERE IS NO ELECTRICITY, THERE
ARE NO JOBS, EDUCATION
FACILITIES, HEALTH FACILIES.IT
THERE IS NOTHING, NOTHING IS
GETTING BETTER.
EVERYTHING IS GETTING WORSE.
>> Reporter: BUT WHILE KHAN'S
BACKERS KEEP UP THEIR EFFORTS,
THE CANDIDATE HAS BEEN UNABLE TO
CAMPAIGN SINCE TUESDAY, WHEN HE
FELL 15 FEET OFF A FORKLIFT AS
IT RAISED HIM TO THE STAGE AT A
RALLY IN LAHORE.
HE FRACTURED THREE VERTEBRAE AND
A RIB AND REMAINS HOSPITALIZED,
BUT HE ADDRESSED A RALLY ON
THURSDAY FROM HIS HOSPITAL BED.
WHO WINS AND WHO LOSES TOMORROW
WILL BE DETERMINED IN LARGE PART
BY A GROWING SEGMENT OF THE
PAKISTANI POPULATION-- THE
YOUNG.
>> IT'S SUNK IN HOW THEY'VE BEEN
LEFT BEHIND AND HOW THESE
VARIOUS CRISES, UNLESS THEY ARE
ADDRESSED, COMPLETELY, YOU KNOW,
DARKEN THE PROSPECTS FOR THE
FUTURE.
>> Reporter: SIMBAL KHAN IS THE
PAKISTAN SCHOLAR AT THE WOODROW
WILSON CENTER IN WASHINGTON.
SHE POINTS TO THE ENORMOUS POWER
OF YOUNGER VOTERS WITH MORE THAN
100 MILLION PAKISTANIS UNDER THE
AGE OF 30.
>> THERE IS THIS HUGE PUSH AND
URGE IN THE YOUNG TO GET THE
CHANGE MESSAGE ACROSS.
AND THIS ELECTION IS THAT CHANGE
MESSAGE, AND I THINK THAT CHANGE
WILL, WITH IMRAN KHAN OR PML-N,
IT IS BASICALLY CATALYZING THIS
KIND OF A DESIRE FOR CHANGE.
AND IT IS BEING FELT.
>> Reporter: THIS ELECTION WILL
MARK THE FIRST TIME IN
PAKISTAN'S HISTORY THAT A
CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT HANDS OVER
POWER TO ANOTHER.
THERE'S A HISTORY OF MILITARY
COUPS, BUT LAST MONTH THE ARMY
CHIEF PLEDGED TO SUPPORTHE T
OUTCOME, NO MATTER WHO WINS.
>> I ASSURE YOU, THAT WE STAND
COMMITTED TO WHOLEHEARTEDLY
ASSIST IN THE CONDUCT OF FREE,
FAIR AND PEACEFUL ELECTIONS; TO
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, THE WIDE
ARRAY OF CANDIDATES AND PARTIES
HAS CAMPAIGNED TO THE WIRE,
PUTTING UP POSTERS.
AND HANDING OUT FLAGS BY THE
DOZENS.
BUT WITH HUNDREDS OF CANDIDATES
COMPETING, PAKISTANIS MAHAVEY
OTHER REASONS TO BE NERVOUS, AS
ANDREW LDERWI POINTS OUT.
>> WHERE THERE IS CONCERN IS
THAT IF WE DO HAVE A HUNG
PARLIAMENT AND LOTS OF WHEELING
AND DEALING AND COMPROMISES HAVE
TO BE MADE AND HALF THE ASSEMBLY
HAS TO BE GIVEN A CABINET
PORTFOLIO TO GET THEM ON BOARD,
IT'S NOT N
LEAD TO A PICTURE OF GOOD
GOVERNANCE AND EFFECTIVE
GOVERNMENT.
>> Reporter: POLLS OPEN TOMORROW
MORNING, AMID HIGH SECURITY AND
HOPES THAT NEITHER VIOLENCE NOR
CORRUPTION WILL MAR THE RESULTS.
>> Woodruff: AND NOW TO THE
ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS AND GERSON.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST
MARK SHIELDS AND "WASHINGTON
POST" COLUMNIST MICHAEL GERSON
DAVID BROOKS WILL RETURN NEXT
WEEK.
NOOIRCHTSDZ WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
LET'S TALK ABOUT IMMIGRATION.
MARK, HUGE BILL, 800 PAGES, 300
AMENDMENTS STARTED MOVING
THROUGH THE SENATE YESTERDAY.
WHAT DO THE PROSPECTS LOOK LIKE?
>> THE PROSPECTS, JUDY, IT'S
FRAGILE.
THE 844 PAGES REPRESENTS
SOMETHING WE DON'T SEE A LOT OF
IN WASHINGTON, WHICH IS
COMPROMISE, CONSCIOU CONSENSUS,G
SOMETHING TOGETHER, BOTH SIDES
OF THE AISLE, EIGHT SENATORS
SUBMERGING THEIR HIGH PROFILES
AND HEALTHY EGOS FOR A WORK
PRODUCT.
WHAT WE SEE ARE PEOPLE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SABOTAGE THAT EFFORT IN
THE COMMITTEE.
SENATOR CRUZ OF TEXAS HAS AN
AMENDMENT ANYBODY WHO HAS EVER
BEEN IN THE UNITED STATES
ILLEGALLY AT ANY TIME CANNOT BE
ELIGIBLE FOR CITIZENSHIP.
THAT, OF COURSE, WOULD PRECLUDE
A SIX-YEAR-OLD WHO WAS BROUGHT
TO THIS COUNTRY BY HIS PARENTS,
JOINING THE MARINE CORPS, GOING
TO IRAQ, SERVING HONORABLY,
BEING WOUNDED, COMING BACK AND
BEINGINELIGIBLE.
THIS IS THE SORT OF AMENDMENTS
THAT WE'RE GOING TO SEE THAT
WILL BE INTENDED, SOME TO
STRENGTHEN THE BILL, OTHERS,
QUITE FRANKLY, MR. SESSIONS OF
ALABAMA, MR. GRASSLEY OF IOWA,
TO SABOTAGE THE BILL.
>> Woodruff: THE LAST TIME
TH EYTRIED TO DO BIG IMMIGRATION
REFORM, IT DIDN'T GO ANYWHERE.
WHAT DOES IT LOOK LIKE TO YOU?
>> I AGREE.
WE HAVE A COMPREHENSIVE BILL.
THERE'S SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE
NOT TO LIKE.
THAT'S THE NATURE OF THIS KIND
OF BILL.
BUT I ACTUALLY THINK IT'S ON A
PRETTY GOOD TRACK.
I DON'T THINK WE'LL SEE BIG
CHANGES IN THE BILL OI A FAIRLY
PARTISAN COMMITTEE, BUT SENATOR
RUBIO, THE REPUBLICAN LEADING
THIS EFFORT, BELIEVES IT WILL
MOVE TO THE RIGHT ON THE FLOOR,
THAT IT WOULD APPEAL TO SOME
UNDECIDED REPUBLICANS.
YOU NEED TO LOOK AT PEOPLE,
BELLWEATHERWISE LIKE SENATOR
GRASSLEY, WHO CRITICAL, BUT
OPEN.
RAND PAUL, WHO I THINK WOULD
HAVE A LOT OF SWAY WITH THE
GRASS ROOTS.
IF SENATOR SCHUMER COULD APPEAL
TO THEM AND PEEL THEM OFF I
THINK YOU COULD GET A LARGE
MAJORITY IN THE SENATE AND PUT
SPEAKER BOEHNER ON THE SPOT
WHETHER HE CAN MOVE FORWARD WITH
A BILL AND PASS SOMETHING.
>> Woodruff: YOU HAVE THIS
REAL INTERESTING DIVISION AMONG
REPUBLICANS.
HOW DOES THAT AFFECT WHAT
HAPPENS?
>> IN FAIRNESS, IT'S NOT JUST
REPUBLICANS.
PAT LEAHY, PRESIDENT PRO TEM OF
THE SENATE, FROM VERMONT, SENIOR
MEMBER OF THAT BODY, HAS AN
AMENDMENT, AND THAT AMENDMENT IS
THAT A GAY PERSON IN THIS
COUNTRY, CITIZEN, CAN BRING TO
THIS COUNTRY A PARTNER FROM A
FOREIGN COUNTRY JUST LIKE A
HUSBAND OR WIFE IS ELIGIBLE TO
UNDER EXISTING LAW.
THAT IS NOT SOMETHING IT APPEALS
TO DEMOCRATS IN THE SENSE OF
ANTIDISCRIMINATION AND EQUITY
AND JUSTICE.
BUT IT'S PROBABLY A GAME WRECKER
FOR THE REPUBLICANS.
>> Woodruff: IF IT PASSES.
>> IT'S HARD FOR ME TO BELIEVE
THAT MARCO RUBIO COULD SUPPORT
LEGISLATION THAT INCLUDED THAT.
SO IT IS ON BOTH SIDES, QUITE
FRANKLY.
I MEAN, THE DEMOCRATS ARE
OVERWHELMINGLY FOR THE
LEGISLATION, AS WRITTEN, BUT
THIS IS THE SORT OF AMENDMENT
THAT COULD BE COMPLICATING.
>> Woodruff: BUT, MICHAEL, YOU
DO HAVE THIS DIVISION, AGAIN, ON
THE REPUBLICAN SIDE.
YOU'VE GOT ON THE ONE HAND,
FORMER SENATOR JIM DEMINT NOW
WITH THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION
PUTTING OUT THIS STUDY TALKING
ABOUT THE COST OF IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
BUT HIS FELLOW REPUBLICAN MARCO
RUBIO IS BEHIND THIS.
>> WELL, THE CONSERVATIVE
MOVEMENT IS SPLIT ON
IMMIGRATION, AND THAT'S A HUGE
IMPROVEMENT OVER 2007 WHEN-- YOU
KNOW, I REMEMBER THOSE DAYS.
THERE WAS A HUGE CONSERVATIVE
WAVE WHICH WE REALLY HAVEN'T
SEEN MATERIALIZE.
MARCO RUBIO DOES NOT NEED TO
CONVERT ALL HIS OPPONENTS.
HE JUST NEEDS TO ASSERT CREDIBLY
THAT THERE ARE TWO SIDES TO THIS
ISSUE IN THE CONSERVATIVE
MOVEMENT, GIVE ENOUGH
REPUBLICANS THE COVER TO VOTE
FORHIS.
THE HERITAGE STUDY THAT YOU
MENTIONED ACTUALLY CONTRIBUTES
TO HIS ARGUMENT.
THIS WAS A SHODDY STUDY, AND
THERE WAS AN IMMEDIATE,
COMPREHENSIVE RESPONSE OF A
BUNCH OF CONSERVATIVE,
PRO-IMMIGRATION-REFORM GROUPS.
THEY SEEM TO HAVE LEARNED SOME
OF THE LESSONS FROM 2007.
THEY'RE MORE ORGANIZED.
THEY'RE MORE AGGRESSIVE.
THIS IS A FEUD WITHIN
CONSERVATIVEATISM, BUT AT LEAST
IT'S NOT A ROUT LIKE IT WAS LAST
TIME GLIED GLOOD AND ONE PIECE
OF IT-- PART OF THE HERITAGE
REPORT THAT TALKED ABOUT LOWER
I.Q.s AMONG INDIVIDUALS WHO
WERE HISPANIC AND LINGERING FOR
GENERATIONS.
NOW I GATHER THE PERSON BEHIND
THAT HAS LEFT THE FOUNDATION.
>> I DON'T THINK IT WAS IN THE
REPORT BUT IN THE RESEARCH BY
ONE OF THE RESEARCHERS.
T NOW THAT'S
SET ASIDE AND IS NO LONGER A
DISTRACTION.
>> I AGREE, JUDY, I THINK EVEN
MORE SIGNIFICANT, OR AS
SIGNIFICANT ALLEGATION THE
GROUPS, WERE THAT LEADING
REPUBLICAN POLITICIANS-- I MEAN,
THERE ARE PROBABLY VERY FEW
REPUBLICAN-- DEMOCRATIC
POLITICIANS-- IN THE COUNTRY WHO
HAVE BETTER FEEL FOR THE
POLITICAL PROCESS THAN HALEY
BARBER, THE FORMER GOVERNOR OF
MISSISSIPPI, AND FORMER
REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CHAIRMAN.
HE CALLED THE HERITAGE REPORT A
POLITICAL DOCUMENT RIGHT OUT OF
THE BOX.
AND SO DID PAUL RYAN, THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE BUDGET
COMMITTEE, AND THE CHAIRMAN FOR
VICE PRESIDENT.
HE DIDN'T CALL IT A POLITICAL
DOCUMENT BUT HE WAS CRITICAL OF
THE HERITAGE REPORT.
I THINK THAT THERE IS MORE
ORGANIZED AND EMBOLDENED
CONSERVATIVE OPPOSITION.
BUT SIX YEARS AGO, IT WAS JOHN
CORNYN OF TEXAS, YOU'LL RECALL,
UP FOR REELECTION IN 2008, WHO
OFFERED THOSE POISON PILL
AMENDMENTS AGAINST PRESIDENT
BUSH'S AND TED KENNEDY AND JOHN
McCAIN'S IMMIGRATION BILL.
I JUST POINT OUT THAT SENATOR
CORNYN SUPFOR REELECTION NEXT
YEAR AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK ABOUT
BENGHAZI.
VERY MUCH IN THE NEWS THE LAST
FEW DAYS, MICHAEL.
THIS IS, OF COURSE, THE OUTPOST
IN LIBYA.
IT WAS OVERRUN.
THE U.N. AMBASSADOR WAS KILLED
ALONG WITH THREE OTHERS.
NEW INFORMATION TODAY ABOUT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT CHANGING THE
SO-CALLED TALKING POINTS THAT
WERE GOING TO BE GIVEN TO
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS.
WHAT-- WHERE IS ALL THIS HEADED
NOW?
>> WELL, IT'S WORTH POINTING
OUT, AT THE OUTSET, EVEN AT THE
WORST, THIS IS NOT WATERGATE.
I THINK WE'RWATERGATE.
WHAT WE'RE TALKCH TALKING ABOUT
IS A COVER-UP-- IF THERE IS A
COVER-UP-- OF NEGEXPWRENS
INCOMPETENCE AND NOT CRIMINALITY
AND THAT IS THE DIFFERENCE.
BUT THIS IS AN UNFOLDING,
RAPIDLY MOVING PROBLEM FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION.
THE TESTIMONY THIS WEEK SHOWED
THAT THE PEOPLE WHO WERE CLOSEST
TO THE CRISIS, THAT WERE IN
LIBYA, KNEW EXACTLY WHAT WAS
HAPPENING, AND THEY REPORTED IT
UP THE CHAIN OF COMMAND.
PEOPLE LIKE JONATHAN CARL OF ABC
REPORTED THIS WEEK THAT THOSE
TALKING POINTS WERE CHANGED
DRAMATICALLY BY MAJOR PLAYERS AT
THTAIE NT AND IN THE
INTERDEPENDENTAL--
>> Woodruff: WHICH IS NOT WHAT
THE HOUSE HAD SAID.
>> EXACTLY, AND IT ENDED UP
BEING MUCH LESS ACCURATE.
AND YOU ALSO HAVE THE DYNAMIC OF
DAVID PETRAEUS IN SOME OF THESE
STORIES THAT HE WASN'T HAPPY
ABOUT THE CHANGES MADE.
>> Woodruff: HE WAS THE C.I.A.
DIRECTOR.
>> HEAD OF THE C.I.A. AT THEGLYR
THE ADMINISTRATION TO SAY
NOTHING TO SEE HERE, MOVE ALONG.
>> Woodruff: WHERE DO YOU SEE
THISSED HEADED?
>> I THINK IT'S A LEGITIMATE
INVESTIGATION.
THE THOUGHT THE HEARINGS WERE
AUTHENTIC.
FOR THE FIRST TIME, INSTEAD OF
THE GRAND CONSPIRACY THEORIES
WE'VE HEARD HATCH ON THE RIGHT,
WE DID HAVE REAL PEOPLE, CROOR
DIPLOMAT, WHO ALLEGES, TESTIFIES
THAT HE LOST HIS JOB AND WAS
DEMOTED AND IS NOW A DESK JOCKEY
BACK HERE.
HE WAS THE DEPUTY CHIEF OF
MISSION.
THE FIRST PERSON-- THE PERSON
THAT AMBASSADOR STEVENS WAS
UNDER ATTACK CALLED.
IT WAS QUITE MOVING, QUITE
EMOTIONAL HIS TESTIMONY.
I FELT.
AT THE SAME TIME, JUDY, THE
REPUBLICANS ON THE COMMITTEE
CHEAPEN IT.
32 TIMES BY ACTUAL COUNT THEY
HAVE MENTIONED HILLARY CLINTON.
I MEAN, YOU CAN SEE-- IS THERE A
LEGITIMATE INQUIRY HERE?
YES.
ARE THEY TRYING TO TURN IT--
ESPECIALLY DARRELL ISSA THE
CHAIRMAN AND SEVERAL OF THE
OTHER MEMBERS, TRYING TO TURN IT
INTO A POLITICAL SHOW?
YES.
I THINK IT WEAKENS THE CASE.
I THINK THERE'S A LEGITIMATE
INVESTIGATION TO BE HELD HERE,
AND I JUST WISH IT WERE BEING
HELD BY A MORE SENIOR, MORE
THOUGHTFUL PEOPLE.
>> AND I AGREE WITH THAT, BY THE
WAY.
THE BEST WAY TO UNDERMINE THIS
ARGUMENT IS TO OVERSTATE THIS
ARGUMENT.
REPUBLICANS SHOULD BE IN A MODE
OF GATHERING FACTS AND FOLLOWING
THEM WHERE THEY LEAD.
AND THAT I THINK IS THEIR BEST
STRATEGY, AS WELL AS THE RIGHT
THING TO DO.
>> Woodruff: BUT THE FACT,
MARK, THE TALKING POINT BEING
CHANGED BY THE STATE DEPARTMENT,
WHAT--
>> I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
QUESTION IT WAS AN ATTEMPT,
JUDY, THEY POINT OUT IT WAS
ULTIMATELY ISSUED BY THE C.I.A.,
THE REPORT WAS, AND THE TALKING
POINTS, SO GENERAL PETRAEUS HAS
SOME EXPLAINING OF HIS OWN TO
DO, I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
QUESTION IT WAS A WAY OF SAYING
THE ADVANTAGE THAT BARACK OBAMA
HAD OVER THE REPUBLICANS AT THAT
POINT IN THE CAMPAIGN WAS THE
REPUBLICANS HAD SQUANDERED IN
THE INVASION, OCCUPATION, FAILED
OF IRAQ, THEY HAD SQUANDERED
WHAT HAD BEEN THEIR HISTORIC
ADVANTAGE ON NATIONAL SECURITY
AND FOREIGN POLICY.
AND THIS WAS A CHANCE, I THINK,
A VULNERABILITY ON THAT COUNT
FOR OBAMA AND TO DISMISS OR
MINIMIZE THE EVOLVEMENT OF
AL QAEDA, TO MINIMIZE THE THREAT
OF TERRORISM--
>> Woodruff: DIDN'T WANT ANY
REFERENCE TO TERRORISM.
>> I THINK THAT'S OBT.
>> WoodrufE
HERE AT HOME, SOUTH POLITICS.
THE FORMER GOVERNOR OF THE STATE
WHO WAS INVOLVED IN HIS ONLY
PERSONAL SHALL WE
EPISODE WHERE HE WENT OFF WITH A
MISTRESS, SOUTH AMERICA,
MICHAEL, MARK STANFORD HAS NOW
COME ROARING BACK.
HE WON HIS CONGRESSIONAL SEAT
AGAINST A WELL-FUNDED DEMOCRATIC
OPPONENT.
WH DOATES THAT SAY ABOUT
AMERICAN POLITICS?
WHAT DOES IT SAY ABOUT THE
DEMOCRAT.
>> THEY SAY WE GET THE CONGRESS
WE DESERVE, AND IF THIS IS TRUE
IN THIS CASE, THEN GOD HELP US.
THIS IS A CASE WHERE-- YOU KNOW,
THIS WAS A GENUINELY CREEPY
CIRCUMSTANCE.
YOU KNOW, DURING THE CAMPAIGN,
HE HAD HIS MISTRESS MEET HIS
TEENAGED SON AT A PUBLIC EVENT
IN FRONT OF A CROWD OF PEOPLE.
>> CAMERAS.
>> WITH CAMERAS AROUND.
IT WAS A VERY STRANGE
CIRCUMSTANCE.
>> IT WAS.
>> THIS IS IS REALLY A CASE
WHERE EVERYONE DESERVES GRACE,
BUT GRACE TAKES TIME AND HEALING
AND PENANCE IN MOST RELIGIOUS
TRADITIONS.
THE PHILOSOPHER AND
THEOLOGDIETRICH BONHOVER TALKED
ABOUT CHEAP GRACE.
THIS WAS CHIEF GRACE.
>> Woodruff: MARK?
>> I CAN'T ARGUE WITH THAT.
I SIMPLY POINT OUT, JUDY, MARK
SANFORD IS A MAN OF GREAT
CONSISTENCY.
HE SAID I THINK IT WOULD BE MUCH
BETTER FOR THE COUNTRY IF BILL
CLINTON RESIGNS.
I COME FROM THE BUSINESS SIDE.
IF YOU HAD A CHAIRMAN OR
PRESIDENT IN THE BUSINESS WORLD
DOING WHAT HE DID, HE'D BE GONE.
>> Woodruff: BACK DURING THE
IMPEACHMENT.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
HE ALSO STUCK A KNIFE INTO BOB
LIVINGSTON, THE REPUBLICAN
SPEAKER DESIGNATE IN THE HOUSE
SAYING HE HAD TO RESIGN BECAUSE
HE LIED TO HIS WIFE.
I THINK IT'S A TRIBUTE THE
COMPASSION, DECENCY OF THE
VOTERS OF SOUTH CAROLINA, THEY
LAST CHOSE NEWT GINGRICH.
SO SERIAL CALL THEORY IS
APPARENTLY NOT A
DISQUALIFICATION.
HE'S A JERK.
WHAT HE DID TO HIS SON-- WHAT HE
DID TO HIS SON AT THAT MOMENT,
AS ANY PARENT, IT'S UNFORGIVABLE
WHAT HE.IS IS YOUR NEW STEP-MOTY
GIRLFRIEND, I WANT TO YOU MEET
HER IN FRONT OF 12 TELEVISION
CAMERAS AND 1,000 PEOPLE WHO HE
HAD NEVER MET BEFORE.
IT WAS UNFORGIVABLE.
>> Woodruff: ON THAT NOTE WE
WILL THANK THE TWO OF YOU, MARK
SHE'S, AND MICHAEL
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT, ONE
VICTIM'S ROAD TO RECOVERY AFTER
THE BOSTON ATTACKS.
ROSEANN SDOA WAS WAITING FOR A
FRIEND TO CROSS THE FINISH LINE
WHEN THE SECOND BOMB EXPLODED
JUST A FEW FEET AWAY.
HER RIGHT LEG WAS SO BADLY
DAMAGED IT HAD TO BE AMPUTATED
ABOVE THE KNEE.
SHE WILL SOON BE FITTED FOR A
PROSTHETIC LEG AND IS CURRENTLY
BEING TREATED AT SPAULDING
REHABILITATION HOSPITAL IN
CHARLESTOWN.
EMILY ROONEY OF WGBH BOSTON SAT
DOWN WITH HER THIS WEEK FOR AN
INTERVIEW ABOUT HER EXPERIENCE
AND ROAD TO RECOVERY.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT.
>> ROSEANN, FIRST, TELL ME WHAT
PHYSICAL THERAPY IS LIKE.
>> IT ALL IS VERY PHYSICAL, EVEN
THE OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY, MAKING
SURE I COULD DO THE TYPICAL
THINGS THAT YOU WOULD NORMALLY
DO EVERY DAY-- BRUSH YOUR TEETH,
SHOWER, GET AROUND IN THE
BATHROOM.
THIS NEW FACILITY HERE IS
PHENOMENAL.
THEY HAVE A MOCK APARTMENT THAT
YOU GO TO AND YOU CAN SEE HOW TO
MOVE STUFF ALONG THE COUNTERS IN
THE KITCHEN, IF YOU'RE ON
CRUTCHES, GETTING IN AND OUT OF
THE SHOWER, OUT OF AN ACTUAL
TUB, GET UP AND OFF THE BED IF
YOU NEED TO.
>> HOW BAD IS THE PAIN?
>> RIGHT NOW.
>> YEAH.
>> IT'SIKE L A THREE TO FOUR.
>THEY TAKE YOU THROUGH DOING
WEIGHTWEIGHTS AND BILLION YOUR E
MUSCLES AND PHYSICAL THERAPY
DOES THAT.
THERE'S SOME STRETCHING WE
USUALLY START WITH, MAKING SURE
THAT THE MUSCLES ARE LIMBER, AND
THEN GO THROUGH DOING DIFFERENT
ARM EXERCISES AND BALANCING TO
MAKE SURE THAT I CAN BALANCE ON
MY LEFT LEG.
IT'S A LOT.
>> IS SOME OF IT DIRECTED AT
YOUR RIGHT LEG, TOO?
>> YUP.
>> AND WHAT DO THEY DO FOR THAT?
>> A LOT OF LIFTING.
THEY'LL PUT WEIGHTS ON IT AND DO
SIDE LIFTS, MAKE SURE THIS STAYS
IN SHAPE AS WELL.
>> TAKE ME BACK TO MARATHON DAY.
WHAT HAD YOU BEEN DOING EARLIER
IN THE MORNING?
>> SAME THING I'VE DONE FOR,
LIKE, THE LAST 15 YEARS.
IT'S BEEN ONE OF MY FAVORITE
DAYS IN BOSTON.
AND I GET A LITTLE EMOTIONAL
ABOUT IT BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW IF
IT WILL BE MY FAVORITE DAY NEXT
YEAR, BUT SAME THING I'VE DONE
EVERY YEAR, GO TO THE RED SOX
GAME WITH FRIENDS AND IT WAS A
BEAUTIFUL, SUNNY DAY.
WE WALKED OVER TO BOYLSTON
STREET.
AND WENT TO ONE OF THE LOCAL
BARS THERE THAT WE'VE GONE TO,
AGAIN, FOR YEARS, AND KNOWING
THAT DIFFERENT FRIENDS WERE
GOING TO MEET UP THERE LATER.
AND GOT NOTIFICATION THAT ONE OF
OUR FRIENDS WAS CLOSE TO COMING
DOWN BOYLSTON STREET, SO WE
ENDED UP GOING OUT TO WATCH THE
RACE, AND WERE STANDING ALONG
THE ROAD, AND JUST CHEERING ON
THE RUNNERS AND WAITING.
AND IT WAS JUST REALLY WEIRD.
WITHIN A MATTER OF A COUPLE OF
MINUTES, THE FIRST BMB WOENT
OFF.
AND IT WAS JUST REALLY STRANGE
BECAUSE, AGAIN, I'VE DONE THIS
FOR SO LONG, WE'VE NEVER HAD
GUNS OR CANNONS OR, YOU KNOW,
SOMETHING TO SALUTE THE RUNNERS,
AND THERE WAS JUST THE POP, POP,
AND IT WAS LITERALLY AT MY FEET.
I JUST-- I THOUGHT THEY WERE
MORE LIKE GRENADES BEING KIND OF
THROAP IN, JUST BECAUSE IT WAS--
I THOUGHT IT WAS, LIKE, HITTING
THE GROUND OR CAME FROM THE
GROUND.
AND THEN IT JUST EYE JUST
REMEMBER KIND OF NOT KNOWING
WHAT WAS GOING ON.
>> SO THE SECOND ONE WAS WHAT
HIT YOU.
>> EXACTLY, YEAH, I WAS IN THE
SECOND ONE.
AND--
>> DID YOU REALIZE RIGHT AWAY
YOU WERE HURT?
>> I WANT TO SAY YES AND NO.
BECAUSE I THINK IT WAS JUST SO
SURREAL THAT I THINK MY BRAIN
SAID YOU'RE HURT, BUT THEN I
WANTED TO RUN BUT I WAS ON THE
GROUND AND COULDN'T RUN AND I
KNEW I COULDN'T RUN.
I GUESS I MUST HAVE IDEAL FOR
HELP BUT IT WAS KIND OF LIKE A
DREAM WHERE YOU THINK YOU'RE
YELLING FOR HELP BUT YOU DON'T
HEAR IT COME OUT, AND I PROBABLY
DIDN'T HEAR IT BECAUSE OF THE
EXPLOSION AND THE BOMB BECAUSE I
HAVE HEARING LOSS IN ONE OF MY
EARS.
KIND OF LIKE LOOKING AROUND, IT
WAS PEOPLE-- PEOPLE WERE
RUNNING.
PEOPLE WERE LIKE ZOMBIES.
PEOPLE-- IT WAS LIKE YOU WERE
IMMEDIATELY IN A BAD MOVIE AND
STARRING IN IT.
>> ARE YOU PLANNING TO GO BACK
TO WORK?
>> YES.
I JUST DON'T KNOW WHEN.
I-- MY WORK HAS BEEN FANTASTIC.
I WORK FOR A PHENOMENAL COMPANY.
I'VE BEEN THERE 10 YEARS.
AND THEY'VE ALL COME TO VISIT
ME.
THEY TOOK A GREAT GRIPE FEETO
OUT IN FRONT OF BUILDING, HUNG A
BANNER FOR ME.
AND I'LL GO BACK.
I JUST DON'T-- I HAVEN'T DECIDE
YET.
I NEED TO GET TO MY APARTMENT.
I NEED TO GET HOME AND REALLY
SEE WHERE I AM WITH THAT AND
THEN GET BACK INTO MY ROUTINE
AND WORK WILL BE A ROUTINE.
BUT I NEED TO DO IT IN BABY
STEPS.
>> I'M SITTING HERE LOOKING
THINKING WHAT WOULD TERRIFY ME
MOST, LEARNING TO DRIVE AGAIN,
NOT BEING ABLE TO PLAY TENNIS?
DO YOU HAVE SOMETHING?
>> THE DRIVING IS A LITTLE
SCARY, BUT I'VE HAD NUMEROUS
PEOPLE TELL ME I CAN USE MY LEFT
FOOT.
AND THEN I'VE HEARD OF DIFFERENT
THINGS THAT YOU CAN PUT IN YOUR
CAR TO ADJUST THE DRIVING OR
HAVE IT ALTERED.
I'LL DRIVE AT SOME POINT, BUT I
THINK TO ME THAT'S THE SCARIEST
THING.
>> AND IS THERE SOMETHING YOU'RE
JUST GOING TO SAY, WELL, I WON'T
BE ABLE TO DO THAT AGAIN?
>> NO.
I HAVEN'T REALLY THOUGHT OF
ANYTHING THAT I WON'T BE ABLE TO
DO.
I THINK-- I THINK THERE WILL BE
AND I THINK THAT WILL BE A DOWN
TIME WHEN I HIT IT.
BUT EVERYTHING HAS BEEN-- I'VE
BEEN SO POSITIVE JUST BECAUSE I
HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD.
I-- I CAN'T-- THERE'S NO-- NO
WAY TO LOOK BACK AND SAY
ANYTHING NEGATIVE ABOUT IT, OR
"I CAN'T DO THAT" OR "I CAN'T DO
THIS."
I'M GOING TO TRY TO DO WHATEVER
I CAN DO.
>> Brown: WATCH THE FULL
INTERVIEW FROM WGBH, ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
IN BANGLADESH, A YOUNG
SEAMSTRESS WAS PULLED ALIVE FROM
THE RUBBLE OF A FACTORY, 17 DAYS
AFTER IT COLLAPSED.
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS INSISTED
AGAIN THAT NO ONE TRIED TO HIDE
ANYTHING AFTER THE ATTACK ON A
U.S. CONSULATE IN LIBYA.
STATE DEPARTMENT E-MAILS SHOW
OFFICIALS HAD PRESSED TO
ELIMINATE ANY REFERENCE TO AL-
QAEDA OR SECURITY THREATS.
AND FEDERAL CLIMATE OFFICIALS
REPORTED THAT CONCENTRATIONS OF
CARBON DIOXIDE IN THE ATMOSPHERE
HAVE REACHED LEVELS NOT SEEN FOR
TWO MILLION TO THREE MILLION
YEARS.
>> Brown: ONLINE, WE FOLLOW-UP
ON OUR REPORT ABOUT THE GENOCIDE
TRIAL OF A FORMER GUATEMALAN
LEADER.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: EFRAIN RIOS
MONTT RULED GUATEMALA DURING ONE
OF THE MOST VIOLENT PERIODS IN
THE COUNTRY'S 36-YEAR CIVIL WAR.
DURING THAT ERA.
RARE FOOTAGE FROM VILLAGES WHERE
VIOLENCE TOOK PLACE.
THE DEBATE ON REAGAN
ADMINISTRATION'S SUPPORT OF THE
COUNTRY, FIND THOSE OUR HOME
PAGE.
IT MAY FEEL LIKE THE
PRESIDENTIAL RACE JUST ENDED,
BUT 2016 AMBITIONS ARE ALREADY
RUNNING HOT.
READ OUR TEAM POLITICS PRIMER ON
REPUBLICAN VISITS TO EARLY
PRIMARY STATES ON THE RUNDOWN.
AND A REMINDER FROM PBS OF
SOMETHING SPECIAL COMING UP ON
THE "NEWSHOUR" A WEEK FROM
TONIGHT, AS WE REMEMBER THE
ANNIVERSARY OF THE WATERGATE
HEARINGS.
>> 40 YEARS AGO, ONE EVENT
CHANGED A NATION.
>> THERE WAS A CANCER GROWING ON
THE PRESIDENCY.
>> PBS WAS THERE WITH
GAVEL-TO-GAVEL COVERAGE, SHOWING
YOU THE WHOLE STORY.
TIMES CHANGE, BUT ONE THING
NEVER WILL-- OUR COMMITMENT TO
REPORTING NEWS ACCURATELY,
OBJECTIVELY, SO THAT YOU CAN
DECIDE.
WATCH THE SPECIAL REPORT "COMPG
WATERGATE" ON THE PBS
"NEWSHOUR," FRIDAY MAY 17, ONLY
ON PBS.
>> Sreenivasan: THOSE NICE WORDS
COME FROM OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
AND WE'RE COLLECTING YOUR
MEMORIES FROM THAT TIME.
YOU CAN CALL OR TWEET US, FIND
THE DETAILS ON OUR HOME PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND AGAIN TO OUR
HONOR ROLL OF AMERICAN SERVICE
PERSONNEL KILLED IN THE
AFGHANISTAN CONFLICT.
WE ADD THEM AS THEIR DEATHS ARE
MADE OFFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS
BECOME AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, ARE 11 MORE.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON MONDAY, BRITISH PRIME
MINISTER DAVID CAMERON VISITS
WASHINGTON.
ON THE AGENDA FOR HIS MEETINGS
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA ARE THE WAR
IN SYRIA, TERRORISM AND MORE.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
"WASHINGTON WEEK" CAN BE SEEN
LATER THIS EVENING ON MOST
PBS STATIONS.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE MONDAY EVENING.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.